punjabi aloo gobi - easy, simple and delicious homely aloo gobi recipe.
author: dassana
recipe type: side
cuisine: north indian, punjabi
serves: 3-4
ingredients (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
1 medium cauliflower/gobi or 400 to 450 grams, florets removed and rinsed
5 to 6 medium size potatoes/aloo or 300 to 350 grams, sliced in wedges
1.5 to 2 inches ginger/adrak, chopped or 4 tsp chopped ginger
½ tsp turmeric powder/haldi
1 tsp kashmiri red chili powder/lal mirch powder or deghi mirch
½ tsp garam masala powder
a few coriander leaves/dhania patta for garnish (optional)
4 tbsp oil or ghee
salt as required
how to make the recipe:
first chop 1 medium sized cauliflower in medium florets. rinse the cauliflower florets very well in water. boil water to which some salt has been added and take it a bowl or pan. add the cauliflower florets. cover the bowl and blanch them in the hot water for 15 to 20 minutes. meanwhile slice the potatoes in wedges. after 15 to 20 minutes, drain the cauliflower and keep aside. the step of blanching is optional and is only done if there are insects in the cauliflower.
in a kadai or thick bottomed pan, heat oil or ghee.
lower the flame and add the aloo/potato wedges.
stir the potatoes well and saute them on a low flame or sim for 6 to 7 minutes. stir a couple of times when sauteing them.
drain the now add the gobi/cauliflower and saute for 3-4 minutes. continue to stir in between.
add chopped ginger. stir again very well.
spice up the gobi and aloo with turmeric powder, red chili powder and salt.
stir again very well, so that the spices are mixed uniformly in the sabzi and coat the veggies also evenly.
cover the pan with its lid tightly.
simmer the aloo gobi 18 to 20 minutes on a low flame. timing will vary with the size, depth and quality of the pan and flame intensity.
in between for a couple of times, remove the lid and stir the aloo gobi well. cover and then again continue to cook. do not add any water.
once the potatoes and cauliflower have cooked, sprinkle garam masala powder and mix it with the entire sabzi
serve aloo gobi with rotis or parathas and a bowl of curd/yogurt. or bread. the recipe also makes for a tiffin box brunch or lunch. if you want you can garnish aloo gobi with a few coriander leaves.

#just added to check the diff command
